0

Sabadilla Officinalis is sourced from plant Cebadilla. It belongs to the family melanthaceae (of the liliaceae). The seeds of the plant Cebadilla are subjected to potentization (process of preparing homeopathic medicines that extracts and intensifies its medicinal properties). Following this process, homeopathic remedy Sabadilla Officinalis is obtained which is of great service to treat nasal allergies, colds and recurrent sneezing.

Drug Action

This medicine principally acts on the mucus membrane of nose. Its action is also felt on lachrymal glands, throat, gastric tract, anus, head, eyes, skin and nerves.

Clinical Indications

Nasal allergy, sneezing, cold, runny nose, sore throat, lachrymation, blue rings around eyes, headache, itchy scalp, worm infestation, stomach pain, cough, earache, noises in ear, dry skin.

 Scope As A Homeopathic Remedy
1. Nose (Nasal Allergy, Sneezing, Runny Nose, Cold)

This medicine has an extensive action on the mucus membrane of nose. It treats complaints of nasal allergies, cold, influenza, runny nose, sneezing and nasal itching. It is one of the best homeopathic medicine for cases of nasal allergy also known as hay fever. It is a nasal condition in which cold-like symptoms occur, like runny nose, sneezing, itchy, watery eyes that happen from an over-reaction of immune cells to harmless substances like pollen, dust etc in a person having allergic tendency. Sabadilla is well indicated when there is runny nose, profuse watery nasal discharge along with sneezing. Tickling, tingling or itching in nose may be felt. Additionally, redness of eyes and watering from eyes may be there. At a given time, either of the two nostrils is blocked which causes difficulty in breathing. Snoring is experienced by the person. Next, frontal pain in head attends. Another peculiar indication for using this remedy is cold with runny nose/sneezing which get worse from strong odour like perfumes.

Key indicating features

Nasal allergy with runny nose, sneezing and nasal itching

Cold with frontal headache

Cold with runny nose/sneezing from strong odours

2. Throat (Sore Throat, Tonsillitis)

With its action on throat, it offers great help in managing cases of chronic sore throat. In most cases needing it, sore throat begins in the left side and then goes to the right side. The tonsils are swollen and inflamed. Pain in the throat is felt from empty swallowing. Cold air makes the complaint worse. Relief is noted by taking warm food or warm drinks. Stitching pain in throat is experienced while swallowing. There is feeling of a lump in the throat and person has constant desire to swallow it. Sometimes, a sensation of skin hanging loosely in throat is felt. Occasionally, it feels as if a morsel of food has got stuck in the throat leading to cough. The throat may feel dry or there can be tough phlegm in throat with need to hawk.

Key indicating features

Sore throat beginning on left side then going to the right side

Sore throat worse from cold air and better from warm drinks/food

3. Gastric Ailments (Worms, Stomach Pain)

Sabadilla is effective in dealing with gastric ailments. Firstly, it is used to treat worms, mostly tapeworms, pin worms and ascarides worms. It gives substantial relief in itching and crawling sensation felt in the anus due to worms.  It also helps in easing the burning sensation or pain felt in navel region. There may be changes in the bowel movement. The stool can be hard and scanty or there may occur diarrhea with loose, brown and frothy stool. Pinching pain around navel and loud rumbling can be felt before passing stool. There may be burning sensation in abdomen and rectum after passing stool.  Sometimes, blood passes with stool. There is excessive passage of gas. Other than these, Sabadilla is indicated to manage twisting/ turning type of pain in abdomen. Rest of the symptoms include bloating, cutting type of pain in the intestine, abdomen pain with a characteristic sensation of a ball moving in the abdomen, burning sensation in stomach and food pipe, and loss of appetite.

Key indicating features

Worm infestations include tapeworm, pin worms, ascarides worms

Itching, crawling sensation in the anus

Pain in navel region in cases of worms

4. Cough

This medicine has also shown clinical improvement in cases of cough. Sabadilla mostly helps in cases of dry cough that arises from roughness or scratchiness or scraping in throat. Coughing mostly worsens at night, as soon as a person lies down. In some cases, pain at the top of head (vertex) is felt along with cough. Sweating, vomiting and watering from eyes are other accompanying symptoms. Difficulty in breathing, burning sensation in chest and wheezing may also happen.  Sabadilla can also be given for cough that worsens from cold.

Key indicating features

Cough arising from roughness or scratchiness in throat

Cough worsening at night, as soon as one lies down and from cold

5. Ears (Earache, Noises In Ears)

This medicine also acts on ears where it is beneficial to manage cases of ear pain, noises in ears (tinnitus), itching in ears. Along with pain in the ear, there is pressure on the ear. Mostly stitching pain especially in left ear is felt. In case of tinnitus, a person hears humming or gurgling noises in ear. There can be difficulty in hearing too.

Key indicating features

Pain in ear with pressure sensation

Humming, gurgling noises in ears

6. Eyes (Redness Of Eyelids, Lachrymation, Blue Rings)

In case of eyes, Sabadilla can be given to manage redness of eyelids attended with burning sensation. Next, it can be used for excessive watering from eyes (lachrymation) while coughing, sneezing or walking in open air. It is also beneficial for cases of blue rings around the eyes.

Key indicating features

Redness and burning of eyelids

Lachrymation during sneezing, coughing and walking in open air

7. Head (Headache, Itchy Scalp)

Sabadilla is a useful medicine to manage headache. It is mainly preferred to manage headache that occurs with cold. The pain, in this case, is frequently experienced in frontal part of head.  There may be heaviness in the head usually in forehead and sides of head (temporal region) in case of nasal allergy. Next peculiar indication to use it is headache that follows excessive thinking or some intellectual thinking. The pain occurs on one side of the head or on alternating sides. It gets better by eating. Sabadilla can be given in cases of itching and burning on the scalp, crawling sensation can also be felt.

Key indicating symptoms

Headache in frontal part of head with cold

Headache from overthinking and intellectual work

8. Skin Complaints (Dry Skin, Crawling Sensation)

Last sphere of action of Sabadilla is skin where it is useful for dry skin. Burning sensation on skin can be present. It is also effective in managing crawling sensation like that of ants. Lastly, it works well in cases of thick, horny, deformed nails.

Key indicating features

Creeping, crawling sensation on skin

Thick, horny, deformed nails

Modalities

Worsening factors: Complaints are worse from cold air, cold drinks, strong odors, and mental exertion

Relieving factors: Complaints are better from warm food and drinks, heat, being wrapped up

Dosage

This medicine works well in both low and high potencies. In low potency like 30C, one may take it frequently around two to three times a day. But in high potency like 200C, 1M frequent repetition should be avoided.

Relationship With Other Remedies

Antidoted by: Camphor, Conium, Lachesis, Lycopodium and Pulsatilla

Followed well by Arsenic Album, Belladonna, Merc Sol, Nux Vomica, Pulsatilla